# MTG Bookmark Iterator
*Developed in 2022*

Tool that iterates over Chrome bookmarks to aid in the creation of Magic the Gathering Commander decks

## History
I enjoy playing the Commander format of Magic the Gathering. This format is 100 card singleton which means aside from basic lands, every one of the remaining 100 cards in the deck must be unique. This means that each deck will have a *lot* of unique cards in it and since those cards can be pulled from the entirety of Magic cards released (25,000+) there a ton of decisions to make with which cards to include. To help me build decks, the system I developed was creating Chrome bookmark folders for each Commander I was considering building a deck for (around two dozen). Any cards I came across that I felt would be good in any of my decks I would bookmark to any of my Commander folders to which it applied.

In 2022, I chose to build a deck for a Commander I hadn't been considering until recently. I was able to add cards to it that synergized well with the commander, but I knew there were many other good cards that I had seen before that maybe weren't directly related to the deck's strategy, but would still be good in the deck. These cards would be buried in the bookmarks of other Commanders that shared colors with my Commander (you can only play cards that match the color of your Commander) but those folders were ~500 cards each for the Commanders I had been seriously considering and would take forever to sort through.

This was the impetus for me creating this tool. I knew that there were many cards that were duplicated across multiple Commander bookmark folders and there were cards bookmarked for other Commanders that I wouldn't be able to play due to their color. I thought that I would make a tool that could help me walk through the bookmarks for other Commders I had been considering and only show me the bookmarks that I would want to consider and thus streamline the deck building process for this deck as well as any future Commander decks I decided to build.

## How it works
To run the tool, launch 'mtg_bookmark_iterator.bat'. The tool is designed to open URLs in groups called "chunks" for consideration to be bookmarked for the deck being built. By default the tool will open URLs from urls.txt, exclude URLs from excluded_urls.txt, and open in chunks of 10. However, you can choose to supply different options for these parameters. For both the URLs to iterate over as well as well as URLs to exclude, you can choose from a list of folders for your Commanders extracted from your Chrome bookmarks. You can also supply the tool with parameters for chunk size (how many tabs to open at a time), the color identity of cards to consider (the tool queries the Scryfall API for this), and finally whether to open "fresh" URLs. Fresh URLs are those you haven't bookmarked before. If you use this system of building Commander decks you will want to add the same card for multiple Commanders. To add the same card URL to multiple bookmark folders you have to make the URL unique and you can do this by adding a "?" followed by a unique number. If you opt to have the tool open "fresh" URLs, it will check all of your bookmark folders until it finds a "?#" suffix to add the URL that makes it unique so that it is ready for you to bookmark yourself for your new deck if you want. And that's it! These parameters can be used together to open just the right tabs in your browser for cards that you want to consider for your deck.

## Do you want to use this tool?
This tool is designed to streamline the deck building process for those that bookmark lots of URLs of cards for different Commander decks. If that's you, you need each of your Commander decks to be in a folder named after the Commander and for the cards you're considering for that Commander to be located in a "Potential Cards" folder within that. Then all you need to do is put each of your bookmark folders for your different Commanders in one shared folder. Then in config.json, modify "commander_path" to have the correct path to your shared folder. Now export your Chrome bookmarks and find your shared folder in it. Copy its "id" to "commander_bookmarks_id" in config.json. If you have any folders in your shared folder that are not Commander decks, take note of their IDs as well and add them to "excluded_commander_bookmarks_ids" in config.json. You're all set up! Now when you run the tool, it should be able to find your card URLs for your different Commanders.
